.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

# Resumen

- [ ] Bug fix (arregla un fallo sin afectar a las funcionalidades actuales)
- [ ] Nueva funcionalidad (añade un funcionalidad sin afectar a las actuales)
- [ ] Cambio importante (añade o modifica una funcionalidad que afecta a las funcionalidades actuales)

_Describa el problema específico que se está solucionando, solo un resumen servirá si hay un enlace al elemento de trabajo que aborda este cambio._

## Que ha cambiado?

_Resuma el cambio realizado, p.ej.: añadido nuevo template para npm, modificado nombre descriptivo de fase ..._

### Areas afectadas

_Especifique las áreas específicas que se han visto afectados por este cambio. p.ej. proceso de publicación de alarms, estrategia de calculo de datapoints ..._

### Areas no afectadas

_Enumere las áreas que normalmente se podría suponer que se han cambiado pero que no lo son en este caso. El objetivo es ahorrar tiempo al revisor y al evaluador._

### Checklist de autor antes de realizar la publicación

- [ ] He comprobado que la modificación funciona correctamente.
- [ ] La modificación sigue los [estándares](https://devopmytra.visualstudio.com/NetinSystems/_wiki/wikis/NetinSystems.wiki/1381/Netin-Systems-DevOps) marcados por el grupo de DevOps de Netin Systems.
- [ ] La modificaciones no incluyen claves, tokens o información confidencial en la pipeline.
- [ ] Se han realizado los test unitarios correspondientes para cubrir el nuevo código y/o eliminado los test que ya no son necesarios.

### Comprobación de la modificación

_Describa las pruebas que ha realizado como parte de este cambio. Anótelo aquí para el revisor y el evaluador._
_Aporte el enlace a pipeline ejecutada de forma exitosa._

Commit message:

fix(core): update dependencies to include Typescript 5.x and Node 20.x (#3)
* chore(core): :wrench: update dependencies and test
* chore(core): :bento: update folders
* ci(ci): :green_heart: fix CI configuration for test
* chore(ci): :green_heart: try to fix ts-jest compilation problems
* chore(ci): :green_heart: try to fix ci issue with test
* chore(ci): :green_heart: try to fix ci problem
* ci(ci): :green_heart: fix ci tests

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

# Summary

- [ ] Bug fix (corrects a fault without impacting current features)
- [ ] New feature (adds a new functionality without affecting the existing ones)
- [ ] Major change (adds or modifies a feature that impacts existing functionalities)

Provide a description of the specific problem that is being solved. A summary would suffice if there is a link to the work item addressing this change.

## What has changed?

Summarize the change made, e.g., added new npm template, modified descriptive phase name ...

### Affected Areas

Specify the particular areas that have been impacted by this change. e.g., alarm publication process, datapoint calculation strategy ...

### Unaffected Areas

List the areas that one might assume have been changed but have not been in this instance. The aim is to save time for the reviewer and evaluator.

### Author's Checklist Before Publication

- [ ] I have verified that the modification works correctly.
- [ ] The modification adheres to the [standards](https://devopmytra.visualstudio.com/NetinSystems/_wiki/wikis/NetinSystems.wiki/1381/Netin-Systems-DevOps) set by the Netin Systems DevOps group.
- [ ] The modifications do not include keys, tokens, or confidential information in the pipeline.
- [ ] Corresponding unit tests have been conducted to cover the new code and/or the tests that are no longer necessary have been removed.

### Verification of Modification

Describe the tests you have performed as part of this change. Note it here for the reviewer and the evaluator.
Provide the link to the successfully executed pipeline.
